Dear Bonnie,
I am sending you a checklist that will help you understand our application process. Please take time to review it and if you have any questions let me know. Thank you

Janan Thom,    M.A.
Minot State University
International Recruitment Coordinator
www.askmsu.com/international
+1 (888) 502-6430
janan.thom@minotstateu.edu

GO BEAVERS! 


-----Original Message-----
From:
Sent: Friday, August 01, 2014 12:06 PM
To: Janan Thom
Subject: International Ask Now Form

Below is the result of your feedback form:
    It was submitted by:  ()
    on Friday, August 1, 2014 at 12:06:00
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Your Name: Bonnie Zhao


Your Question: Dear ,

    I am from China. I am planning to
attend undergraduate school at Minot
University for spring 2015 for major a
Bachelor of Science with a Major in
Management Information Systems. Would
you please give me detail information
about process to apply to your school?
Any requirements? Fee?
     
Regards,






 

On Friday, August 1, 2014 3:19 PM, Heidi Eidem <minotdoa@thelanguagecompany.com> wrote:

 

Hello,

 

My name is Heidi Eidem and I am the Director of Admissions for The Language Company-Minot.  We are an ESL School located on the MSU campus.  I received your request for more information regarding our ESL program.  Before I explain our cost of tuition and fees, let me first tell you a little more about our programs.  Our intensive English program (our standard program) is organized into 13 4-week sessions each calendar year. Each session begins on a Monday. New students take a placement test on that day to determine at which of our 9 levels they will begin to study. Levels 1-3 are considered to be beginner levels; levels 4-6 are considered to be intermediate levels; levels 7-9 are considered to be advanced levels. If a student arrives at our center with no knowledge of English, we also have a program called foundations that teaches very basic English (alphabet, numbers, colors, basic verbs, etc.). If a student completes our level 9 and wants additional practice before moving on, we also have an Advanced Proficiency Level courses that a student can take for up to 3 sessions. These courses allow for guided, but more independent study.

 

The amount of time that each student studies with us varies.  Typically, students stay in our program for about 4 to 5 sessions.  Students also have 25 hours of classes each week and study Listening/Speaking skills, Grammar, and Reading/Writing skills. The focus of our instruction is academic prep, so not only will you learn English, but you will also learn important skills needed for your studies at MSU: how to do research, how to write an academic paper, how American classrooms function, how to present research, etc.

 

TLC also has a close relationship with MSU. One of the international admissions specialists gives tours of the MSU campus for new students on their first day of classes. She also comes to TLC once a month for an hour long question and answer session. She answers questions about transferring to MSU, advises students how to best complete their admissions file to ensure the smooth transfer from TLC to MSU, etc. Finally, because our students have access to nearly every on-campus amenity and service (cafeterias, fitness center, swimming pool, dormitories, library, sporting events), they are well-integrated into campus life before they even become full Minot State University students.

 

The cost of the intensive English program is $1,550.00 per session.  There is also an application fee of $100.00.  Before I can explain the other fees I need some more information:  1)  Where are you coming from?  Do you currently live in the United States or in another country?  2)  Will you be finding your own housing?  Or will you like to stay in the university dorms or with a homestay family?  3) Do you have your own health insurance?  Or do you need TLC to provide health insurance for you?

 

Once you answer these questions I will be able to better explain our fees to you. 

 

I am attaching in this email our 2014 Application.  It contains information about our programs, fees, and policies.  For more information about our center please feel free to check us out on Facebook (https://www.facebook.com/TLCMinot). You can also watch this YouTube video that gives a good picture of what studying at TLC-Minot is like: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AFGYewZDWFQ&feature=youtu.be&utm_source=Student+List+(Engrade)&utm_campaign=bef77a1452-English_Express_Ses_2_Agents_2_26_2014&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_76afbe74d5-bef77a1452-

  

If you have any questions please do not hesitate to ask!

 

Thank you for your response.  Please see my responses in RED to what you wrote:

 

1)  Where are you coming from?Do you currently live in the United States or in another country?  

I'm from China and planning to apply to MSU and TLC. From my understanding that, I will have to apply to MSU in order to get I-20 for applying F1 visa. After comes to America, I have to take English course at TLC.

Actually, you will need to apply to both MSU and TLC at the same time.  MSU will not give you an I-20 if your English is not good enough to be accepted.  If that is the case, you will need to apply with TLC and use the I-20 we give you to get your F-1 visa.  Once you show MSU that you have been accepted to our English program they will give you a letter of conditional admittance that says you will be fully admitted to MSU once you complete our program.  You will then use the I-20 we will give you and the letter of conditional admittance from MSU to get your F-1 visa.   

2)  Will you be finding your own housing?  Or will you like to stay in the university dorms or with a homestay family? 

I will find my own housing.

Since you will find your own housing you will not have to pay any housing fees.

3) Do you have your own health insurance?  Or do you need TLC to provide health insurance for you?

I would need TLC provide health insurance.

We will put you on TLC’s plan when you begin classes.

 

Now that I have more specific information I will be able to better answer your question regarding costs.  The following are the fees you will need to pay:

$100 application fee

$75 express mail fee so we can mail your acceptance packet to you

$50 airport pick up fee if you want us to pick you up from the airport

$1550 per session for tuition

$80 per session for health insurance

 

So, if you would like to take classes with us, the next step is to send me your completed application, copy of your passport, $100 app fee and $75 express mail fee.  If you have any questions please do not hesitate to ask.
